New data-type: <axis> (#42015)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/values/axis/index.md

---
title: <axis>
slug: Web/CSS/Reference/Values/axis
page-type: css-type
browser-compat: css.types.axis
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/scroll-animations/#typedef-axis
sidebar: cssref
---

> The **`<axis>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type is a CSS keyword specifying the scrolling direction of the {{glossary("scroll container")}} controlling a [scroll timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`<axis>`** {{glossary("enumerated")}} data type specifies the scrolling direction of the {{glossary("scroll container")}} controlling a [scroll timeline](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/guides/Scroll-driven_animations/Timelines).
```

(it's not a keyword, but a data type that specifies multiple possible keywords)

The `<axis>` keyword values are used in the following [CSS functions](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/Functions) and properties:

- {{cssxref("scroll-timeline-axis")}}
- {{cssxref("scroll-timeline")}} shorthand
- [`scroll()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/scroll)
- {{cssxref("view-timeline-axis")}}
- {{cssxref("view-timeline")}} shorthand
- [`view()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/animation-timeline/view)

## Syntax

Valid `<axis>` values:

- `block`
  - : The block axis of the scroller element, which is the axis in the direction perpendicular to the flow of text within a line. For horizontal writing modes, such as standard English, this is the same as `y`, while for vertical writing modes, it is the same as `x`.
- `inline`
  - : The inline axis of the scroller element, which is the axis in the direction parallel to the flow of text in a line. For horizontal writing modes, this is the same as `x`, while for vertical writing modes, this is the same as `y`.

> - `y`

Reviewer: Put this one at the end so they are in alphabetical order?
